---
layout: post
title:  "Dr. Junwu Huang's lunch talk 20/12/2018"
date:   2018-12-20
author: Lijing Shao
categories: activities
---

## Junwu Huang (Perimeter Institute, Canada)

#### Probing axions with neutron star inspirals observed by Advanced LIGO

In certain models of a QCD axion, finite density corrections to the axion
potential can result in the axion being sourced by large dense objects. There
are a variety of ways to test this phenomenon, but perhaps the most surprising
effect is that the axion can mediate forces between neutron stars that can be
as strong as gravity. In this talk, I will discuss how axion forces and
radiations can be detected by Advanced LIGO observations of neutron star
inspirals. The axion mediated forces can be both attractive or repulsive. By a
numerical coincidence, axion forces between neutron stars with gravitational
strength naturally have an associated length scale of tens of kilometers or
longer, similar to that of a neutron star. A significant axion field profile
can only be sourced by large dense objects, and therefore evades various fifth
force constraints. Observations of neutron star mergers in Advanced LIGO can
probe many orders of magnitude of unconstrained axion parameter space. In the
talk, I will also discuss using an effective field theory (EFT) approach to
calculate the first post-Newtonian corrections to the orbital dynamics,
radiated power, and gravitational waveform for binary neutron star mergers in
the presence of an axion. These results can be used to perform a detailed
forecast of the potential for Advanced LIGO to constrain the free parameters of
the EFT, and map these to the mass and decay constant of the axion.
[[link](http://kiaa.pku.edu.cn/lunchtalks/2018octmon-2)]

**Place**: 1st floor meeting room, KIAA

**Time**: Thu, 2018-12-20 12:00 to 13:00
