---
layout: post
title:  "Dr. Weiwei Xu's lunch talk 27/12/2018"
date:   2018-12-27
author: Lijing Shao
categories: activities
---

## Weiwei Xu (National Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of Sciences)

#### A New X-Ray Selected Galaxy Cluster Sample from the ROSAT All-Sky Survey

Some indications for tension have long been identified between cosmological
constraints obtained from galaxy clusters and primary cosmic microwave
background (CMB) measurements. Typically, assuming the matter density and
fluctuations, as parameterized with Omega_m and sigma_8, estimated from CMB
measurements, many more clusters are expected than those actually observed.
This has been reinforced recently by the Planck collaboration. One possible
explanation could be that certain types of galaxy groups or clusters were
missed in samples constructed in previous surveys, resulting in a higher
incompleteness than estimated. In this work, we aim to determine if a
hypothetical class of very extended, low-surface-brightness galaxy groups or
clusters have been missed in previous X-ray cluster surveys based on the ROSAT
All-Sky Survey (RASS).We applied a dedicated source-detection algorithm
sensitive also to more unusual group or cluster surface-brightness
distributions. We found many known groups but also a number of new group
candidates, which are not included in any previous X-ray or SZ cluster
catalogs. In this talk, I will present a pilot sample of 13 very extended
groups discovered in the RASS at positions where no X-ray source has been
detected previously and with clear optical counterparts. The X-ray fluxes of at
least 5 of these are above the nominal flux-limits of previous RASS cluster
catalogs (> 3x10^{-12} erg s^{-1} cm^{-2} in the 0.1-2.4 keV energy band). They
have low mass (10^{13} Msun We demonstrate that galaxy groups were missed in
previous RASS surveys, possibly due to the flat surface-brightness
distributions of this potential new population. Analysis of the full sample
will show if this might have a significant effect on previous cosmological
parameter constraints based on RASS cluster surveys.
[[link](http://kiaa.pku.edu.cn/lunchtalks/2018decthu)]

**Place**: first floor meeting room, KIAA

**Time**: Thu, 2018-12-27 12:00 to 13:00
