---
layout: post
title:  "Prof. Richard Strom's colloquium talk 17/01/2020"
date:   2020-01-17
author: Lijing Shao
categories: activities
---

## Richard Strom (University of Amsterdam)

#### How was neutral hydrogen in our Galaxy discovered?

The discovery of neutral atomic hydrogen (HI) in the interstellar medium was
based on a prediction by H. C. van de Hulst. The story of how Jan Oort
suggested that the student Van de Hulst might investigate the question, who
then reported his results at a wartime colloquium in Leiden, is well known.
Archival research in the past few years has turned up letters and other
documents which, while not changing the basic storyline, do throw new light on
certain details. From letters to Oort, it is now possible to determine when he
first heard about Reber’s observations of radio emission from the Milky Way,
and what his immediate reaction was. After the 1944 colloquium, Oort began his
quest to detect and study the HI line, despite technical and financial
limitations, and the lack of radar know-how in the Netherlands. The Dutch
effort achieved success in 1951, but not before the Harvard team of Ewen and
Purcell had detected the line some six weeks before. The entire story is a fine
example of how research in science is often done, with changes in strategy,
unexpected obstacles, new input from others and significant social elements. 
[[link](http://kiaa.pku.edu.cn/colloquia/how-was-neutral-hydrogen-our-galaxy-discovered)]

**Place**: KIAA-PKU Auditorium

**Time**: Friday, January 17, 2020 - 4:00pm to 5:00pm
